README.md, before:

# conventional-commits-plugin

[![Build Status](https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/conventional-commits-plugin/job/main/badge/icon)](https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/conventional-commits-plugin/job/main/)
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/jenkinsci/conventional-commits-plugin.svg)](https://github.com/jenkinsci/conventional-commits-plugin/graphs/contributors)
[![Jenkins Plugin](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/v/conventional-commits.svg)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/conventional-commits)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jenkinsci/conventional-commits-plugin.svg?label=changelog)](https://github.com/jenkinsci/conventional-commits-plugin/releases/latest)
[![Jenkins Plugin Installs](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/i/conventional-commits.svg?color=blue)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/conventional-commits)

## Introduction

This plugin can be used to determine the next release version based on previous tags and the commit messages used.  
It calculates the version number based on the format of the commit message.  
The commit message format used is [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

## Getting started

This plugin can be used in a pipeline in a stage or the environment block.  Some examples of this in use are:

### In the environment block

```
pipeline {
    agent any

    environment {
        NEXT_VERSION = nextVersion()
    }

    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo "next version = ${NEXT_VERSION}"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
### In a scripted Pipeline

```groovy
def NEXT_VERSION
node {                                                 
    stage('Get next version ...') {
      NEXT_VERSION=nextVersion()
      echo "Next version : $NEXT_VERSION"
    }
    stage ('Release') {
        sh "mvn release:prepare -DreleaseVersion=$NEXT_VERSION"
        sh 'mvn release:perform'
    }
}
```

## Using Optional Parameters

The plugin provides provision to use optional parameters for support of build metadata, pre-release information, settnig the start tag, etc.

### Build Metadata 

`buildMetadata` an optional parameter can be added as follows:

```
pipeline {
    agent any
    environment {
        NEXT_VERSION = nextVersion(buildMetadata: "$env.BUILD_NUMBER")
    }
    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo "next version = ${NEXT_VERSION}"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
Assuming next version is `1.1.0`.
The pipeline will output :`next version = 1.1.0+001`

### Use with prerelease information
For a `1.0.0` existing version the following code :

```
pipeline {
    agent any

    environment {
        NEXT_VERSION = nextVersion(preRelease: 'alpha')
    }

    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo "next version = ${NEXT_VERSION}"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
Will display :`next version = 1.1.0-alpha`

#### Prerelease possible combinations
There are three options to manipulate the prerelease option :
- the name of the prerelease :arrow_right: `preRelease`
- keep the existing prerelease (default **false**) :arrow_right: `preservePrelease`
- increment the existing prerelease (default **false**) :arrow_right: `incrementPreRelease`

The table below resume the combined use of these options and the result:

| current version | Breaking change commit msg | Feature commit msg | Other or empty commit msg | prerelease | preservePreRelease | incrementPreRelease	| Output              |
| :---:           | :---:                      | :---:              | :---:                     | :---:      | :---:              | :---:                | :---:               |
| 0.1.0           | X                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**1.0.0**         |
| 0.1.0           | -                          | X                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**0.2.0**         |
| 0.1.0           | -                          | -                  | X                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.1**         |
| 0.1.0           | X                          | -                  | -                         | alpha      | -                  | -                    |	**1.0.0-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0           | -                          | X                  | -                         | alpha      | -                  | -                    |	**0.2.0-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0           | -                          | -                  | X                         | alpha      | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.1-alpha**   |
| 1.0.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**1.0.0**         |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.0**         |
| 0.1.1-alpha     | -                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.1**         |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | X                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | X                  | -                    |	**1.0.0-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | X                  | -                         | - 	     | X                  | -                    |	**0.2.0-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | X                         | - 	     | X                  | -                    |	**0.1.1-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | X                         | - 	     | X                  | X                    |	**0.1.1-alpha.1** |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | X                          | -                  | -                         | beta       | -                  | -                    |	**1.0.0-beta**    |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | X                  | -                         | beta       | -                  | -                    |	**0.2.0-beta**    |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | X                         | beta       | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.1-beta**    |

### Write next version in the configuration file (pom.xml, package.json)
The optional parameter `writeVersion` allow writing back to the file the next calculated version.

**:warning: For some configurations files, the CLI is needed (maven fo example). :warning:** 

The supported configurations files : 
 - pom.xml (Maven) : need the Maven CLI in the path,
 - package.json (NPM) : need the Npm CLI in the path,
 - chart.yaml (Helm).

Example of use :
With a project with a package.json as follows : 
```json
{
  "name": "conventional-commits-plugin-example-npm",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Npm example project"
}
``` 
The following pipeline with a commit with a commit message like _feat: my cool feature_: 
```groovy
pipeline {
    agent any
    environment {
        NEXT_VERSION = nextVersion(writeVersion: true)
    }
    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo "next version = ${NEXT_VERSION}"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
Will update the _package.json_ as follow : 
```json
{
  "name": "conventional-commits-plugin-example-npm",
  "version": "1.1.0",
  "description": "Npm example project"
}
``` 

## Issues

Report issues and enhancements in the [Github issue tracker](https://github.com/jenkinsci/conventional-commits/issues).

## Contributing

TODO review the default [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file and make sure it is appropriate for your plugin, if not then add your own one adapted from the base file

Refer to our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## LICENSE

Licensed under MIT, see [LICENSE](LICENSE.md)

Commit message:

:tada: feat: write next version in build.gradle

README.md, after:

# conventional-commits-plugin

[![Build Status](https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/conventional-commits-plugin/job/main/badge/icon)](https://ci.jenkins.io/job/Plugins/job/conventional-commits-plugin/job/main/)
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/jenkinsci/conventional-commits-plugin.svg)](https://github.com/jenkinsci/conventional-commits-plugin/graphs/contributors)
[![Jenkins Plugin](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/v/conventional-commits.svg)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/conventional-commits)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jenkinsci/conventional-commits-plugin.svg?label=changelog)](https://github.com/jenkinsci/conventional-commits-plugin/releases/latest)
[![Jenkins Plugin Installs](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/plugin/i/conventional-commits.svg?color=blue)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/conventional-commits)

## Introduction

This plugin can be used to determine the next release version based on previous tags and the commit messages used.  
It calculates the version number based on the format of the commit message.  
The commit message format used is [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

## Getting started

This plugin can be used in a pipeline in a stage or the environment block.  Some examples of this in use are:

### In the environment block

```
pipeline {
    agent any

    environment {
        NEXT_VERSION = nextVersion()
    }

    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo "next version = ${NEXT_VERSION}"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
### In a scripted Pipeline

```groovy
def NEXT_VERSION
node {                                                 
    stage('Get next version ...') {
      NEXT_VERSION=nextVersion()
      echo "Next version : $NEXT_VERSION"
    }
    stage ('Release') {
        sh "mvn release:prepare -DreleaseVersion=$NEXT_VERSION"
        sh 'mvn release:perform'
    }
}
```

## Using Optional Parameters

The plugin provides provision to use optional parameters for support of build metadata, pre-release information, settnig the start tag, etc.

### Build Metadata 

`buildMetadata` an optional parameter can be added as follows:

```
pipeline {
    agent any
    environment {
        NEXT_VERSION = nextVersion(buildMetadata: "$env.BUILD_NUMBER")
    }
    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo "next version = ${NEXT_VERSION}"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
Assuming next version is `1.1.0`.
The pipeline will output :`next version = 1.1.0+001`

### Use with prerelease information
For a `1.0.0` existing version the following code :

```
pipeline {
    agent any

    environment {
        NEXT_VERSION = nextVersion(preRelease: 'alpha')
    }

    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo "next version = ${NEXT_VERSION}"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
Will display :`next version = 1.1.0-alpha`

#### Prerelease possible combinations
There are three options to manipulate the prerelease option :
- the name of the prerelease :arrow_right: `preRelease`
- keep the existing prerelease (default **false**) :arrow_right: `preservePrelease`
- increment the existing prerelease (default **false**) :arrow_right: `incrementPreRelease`

The table below resume the combined use of these options and the result:

| current version | Breaking change commit msg | Feature commit msg | Other or empty commit msg | prerelease | preservePreRelease | incrementPreRelease	| Output              |
| :---:           | :---:                      | :---:              | :---:                     | :---:      | :---:              | :---:                | :---:               |
| 0.1.0           | X                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**1.0.0**         |
| 0.1.0           | -                          | X                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**0.2.0**         |
| 0.1.0           | -                          | -                  | X                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.1**         |
| 0.1.0           | X                          | -                  | -                         | alpha      | -                  | -                    |	**1.0.0-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0           | -                          | X                  | -                         | alpha      | -                  | -                    |	**0.2.0-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0           | -                          | -                  | X                         | alpha      | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.1-alpha**   |
| 1.0.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**1.0.0**         |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.0**         |
| 0.1.1-alpha     | -                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.1**         |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | X                          | -                  | -                         | - 	     | X                  | -                    |	**1.0.0-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | X                  | -                         | - 	     | X                  | -                    |	**0.2.0-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | X                         | - 	     | X                  | -                    |	**0.1.1-alpha**   |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | X                         | - 	     | X                  | X                    |	**0.1.1-alpha.1** |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | X                          | -                  | -                         | beta       | -                  | -                    |	**1.0.0-beta**    |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | X                  | -                         | beta       | -                  | -                    |	**0.2.0-beta**    |
| 0.1.0-alpha     | -                          | -                  | X                         | beta       | -                  | -                    |	**0.1.1-beta**    |

### Write next version in the configuration file (pom.xml, package.json)
The optional parameter `writeVersion` allow writing back to the file the next calculated version.

**:warning: For some configurations files, the CLI is needed (maven fo example). :warning:** 

The supported configurations files : 
 - pom.xml (Maven) : need the Maven CLI in the path,
 - package.json (NPM) : need the Npm CLI in the path,
 - chart.yaml (Helm),
 - build.gradle (Gradle) : need the Gradle CLI in the path.

Example of use :
With a project with a package.json as follows : 
```json
{
  "name": "conventional-commits-plugin-example-npm",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "Npm example project"
}
``` 
The following pipeline with a commit with a commit message like _feat: my cool feature_: 
```groovy
pipeline {
    agent any
    environment {
        NEXT_VERSION = nextVersion(writeVersion: true)
    }
    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo "next version = ${NEXT_VERSION}"
            }
        }
    }
}
```
Will update the _package.json_ as follow : 
```json
{
  "name": "conventional-commits-plugin-example-npm",
  "version": "1.1.0",
  "description": "Npm example project"
}
``` 

## Issues

Report issues and enhancements in the [Github issue tracker](https://github.com/jenkinsci/conventional-commits/issues).

## Contributing

TODO review the default [CONTRIBUTING](https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file and make sure it is appropriate for your plugin, if not then add your own one adapted from the base file

Refer to our [contribution guidelines](https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## LICENSE

Licensed under MIT, see [LICENSE](LICENSE.md)
